# Why do a PhD?

<!-- Over the course of my educational life, physics has grown to be a true passion of mine. Physics presents an opportunity for us to resolve some of the greatest mysteries of our universe, and takes us down the infinite rabbit hole to understanding our reality.  -->

Very early on as an undergraduate, it was apparent to me that I wanted to do physics for the rest of my life. Just as music theory and exposure fosters a muscian's deep appreciation for melodious composition, so has physics unveiled the elegance and beauty of the world around me. To me, physics at its core promises such a pure pursuit of uncovering the inner workings of our percieved reality. Yet despite its almost simplistic goal, the journey to attaining such an understanding is unfathomably difficult. This poses a magnificent challenge to us all, and has unequivocally entranced my curiosities. Where does the rabbit hole end? What underlies "the matrix"? In the off chance that human creativity, ingenuity and persistence really can answer these questions, I want nothing else but to have been part of the ragtag band of dreamers who tried.
 
Knowing the people we surround ourselves with play such a major role in personal and mental growth, it was only natural that I wanted to be around the best and brightest in physics. I yearned to cultivate my mind for the unprecendented intellectual curve balls physics might throw at me, to elevate my faculties and prepare me for significant contributions to the field. Well, what better way to obtain this than through a PhD program! It just seemed the obvious next step. Plus alongside the rigorous academic training, a PhD program also formalizes many of the oherwise turbulent paths one could take in trying to establish a career in physics. This is invaluable when the subject matter itself presents such a vast amount of chaos (quite literally). I knew that a PhD would also open the opportunity for me to impart the knowledge I acquired from my teachers to future generations. Just as is the subject, so too is teaching it an art in and of itself. Teaching is a skill that I want to hone. Just as I have been inspired by many of my instructors, so too do I want the chance to nurture the same passion and curiosity in others. 

Another appeal of a PhD program was the prospect of ownership and agency over my work, for which I am truly fortunate to be earning a living doing a great love of mine. I believe that a big part of feeling fulfilled at the workplace comes from the ability to say what you're working on is truly "your baby". Even as a graduate student, there is a lot of freedom to chase down the scientific leads I want to investigate amongst the many research paths paved by my advisor (which is much needed as a young, naive researcher). There has been overhelming support for me to voice my ideas and engage in stimulating conversations that have been invaluable to the research I do. Perhaps this is a product of the amazing atmosphere established by the people at JILA, but this has always been what research is about to me. I see a PhD as more than just a stepping stone, but a time in my life to find myself as a physicist, a person in society and hopefully as a positive ripple in spacetime.

There have been many role models and mentors through my academic journey thus far. In particular, [Prof Dario Poletti](https://people.sutd.edu.sg/~dario_poletti/), [Prof Cheah Chin Wei](https://epd.sutd.edu.sg/people/faculty/cheah-chin-wei) and [Prof Riccardo Comin](http://scattering.mit.edu/) have shown tremendous guidance and support, which has led me to the PhD position I have today. Thank you.  
